Welcome to ETHelper - Dataset Generator for the Energy Transition Model (ETM)

## OVERVIEW

ETHelper is a front-end application which streamlines some of the key development processes for using the Energy Transition Model (ETM) (available at https://github.com/quintel). 

## DIRECTORIES

ethelper.py - application codebase.
config - configuration files for application.
icons - contains images used in the application.
output - contains the data.csv that gets generated by the application.
presets - contains .csv files to indicate which keys are relevant for specific database structures, as well as a categories folder with .csv files that specify the typologies of each key.
variables - contains list of keys and translations for each key in .csv format. 
development - contains material related to development process, including older iterations of the application codebase.
venv - contains files relating to the python virtual environment to run the application. 

## SETUP

To run the program, navigate to the ethelper directory using your CLI and create a python virtual environment with the following command:

python3 -m venv venv

Activate the virtual environment with:

source venv/bin/activate
(if on MacOS or Linux)

venv/Scripts/activate
(if on Windows)

Then install the required libraries within the virtual environment:

pip install streamlit pandas
pip install watchdog
pip install matplotlib

If streamlit needs upgrading, run:

pip install streamlit --upgrade

To run the application, use:

streamlit run ethelper.py

The application should run on the following default host and automatically open a tab on your internet browser:

  Local URL: http://localhost:8501
  Network URL: http://[YOUR_IP_ADDRESS]:8501

Close the application with CNTRL+C

## FUNCTIONALITIES

NOTE: When inputting values for each key, do not change the preset group of keys, as this will delete your reset the preset-exclusive inputs!

## LICENSE

DSGen is released under the [MIT License].

Copyright (c) 2024 Edoardo Santagata / The University of New South Wales (UNSW), Australia

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

If you have any issues, reach out to:
Edoardo Santagata
edoardo.santagata@unsw.edu.au
The University of New South Wales (UNSW)
